## Co-Locating a Power Couple: Retrofitting Existing Wind Projects with Solar PV in the U.S.

### Abstract
The demand for renewable energy such as wind and solar power in the United States is rapidly accelerating to help meet the ambitious goal of a net-zero power grid by 2035. However, a barrier to adding new wind and solar photovoltaic (PV) development lies in delays of constructing new transmission infrastructure. Co-location of renewable energy sites by adding solar PV to existing wind projects can reduce the need for new transmission infrastructure development while increasing profit from the project. The study used an nonlinear optimization model to find the optimal system size of solar PV to be added at each of the identified over 1,200 existing wind projects in the contiguous U.S. Using environmental sensitivity scores and estimated annual levelized-costs, the analysis then ranked the co-location projects to highlight sites that may benefit most from co-location. This study provides initial evidence towards co-location as a viable and efficient solution to reaching U.S. carbon-free energy goals. The nonlinear optimization model proposed can be generalized to quantify and examine co-location in other scenarios; like the implementation of co-location at sites that have not yet been developed with wind or solar.

### About the Contributors
Michelle Lam, Colleen McCamy, and Alessandra Vidal Meza contributed to this project through their capstone project for the Master of Environmental Data Science at the Bren School of Environmental Science & Management, UC Santa Barbara during the 2022-2023 school year. Capstone projects offer students the opportunity to collaboratively design, execute, and present a professional environmental data science product working with both internal and external stakeholders. The students worked under the supervision and guidance of Dr. Grace Wu from the Environmental Studies Program at UC Santa Barbara. 
